Week 1:
I finally downloaded the SDL2 library on my Mac thanks to Karel. I am following a tutorial on how to create a game using SDL2 to learn how to use the library.
This tutorial also gave me an insight into what the architecture of the game should be. in the next meeting during the lecture class we will make sure that everyone 
has SDL2 downloaded and working on their computer. I hope that this week each team will be able to make a prototype.

Week 2: I finished following the tutorial. It gave us a code base for our game. I learned how to use SDL2 and I understood the architecture of the code of the tutorial. We have a Game class which is the game itself, in the main.cpp we have the running loop of our game so while our game is running, we update, render and handle the events. I learned how to use the ECS system provided by the tutorial. The ECS system allows us to add components to entities and thus create different entities with different components. 

Week 3: I started using the code base and creating new features from it. I worked on the range attack of the player. I managed to make it so that the player can shoot circles in 8 directions (diagonal, horizontal and vertical). I also added a “Stats” component that we will use to handle the stats of our entities (enemies and player). I also managed to make it so that we can see the current health of the entities on the top of their head using the UILabel component. I also implement the knockback from the player attack on the enemies. It worked but wasn’t perfect since at some point the enemy can get stuck in a wall, so I fixed it later (see Week 8). After this week, I saw that only me and Joaquin Sanchez really worked on our own to learn how to use SDL and the base code. So I organized a meeting with everyone during which I explained to them that they won’t write any line of code if they don’t spend time understanding the code. I told them to understand it as quickly as possible so that we can advance. 

Week 4: Joaquin Sanchez did some great work on the “Weapon Component” class. It was great but it was taking care at the same time of both range and melee weapon. So I decided to split the component into two components: Sword and Range_Weapon (Joaquin Sanchez already created a child of WeaponComponent “Sword” but I didn’t find a way to use this well). Then I spent a lot of time on the melee attack on the player. Joaquin Sanchez did something great but it was a prototype. So I managed to implement the melee attack of the player in 4 directions. I simply create a rectangle collider in front of the player that is the hitbox of the attack and check if it collides with the enemies. Now I was facing a problem: how to use rotated rectangles ? Because I wanted the player to be able to attack in the diagonals. 

Week 5: I worked on collisions between rotated rectangles. I watched videos about collisions in 2D games and discovered the SAT (Separate Axis Theorem Theorem). It is a Theorem that allows us to check collisions between, convex shapes, concave shapes and circles. I coded a collision checker for rotated rectangles that follows the Theorem, when I tested it with a rotated rectangle and the Player everything was working, so I thought it was well implemented, but later I found a problem (see Week 7).

Week 6: I worked on the sprites of the player and animated his attack with the sprite Adan Fhima provided. We didn't keep this animation since we decided that the sword would appear and then "retract" itself. So I changed it to a long sword that appears in the direction of the attack. Thus, I managed to implement diagonal attacks. I also added the Armor component for the player. When we press “S” we can change the armor and the sprites change as well. I also spent some time creating a new map for the game. The map we had from the tutorial is of size 25x20 with the size of the tiles being 32x32 (scaled by 4) so the total size was 3200x2560. I used a tileset I found on the internet to make a 50x40 map so the total size is 6400x5120 (I did it because the ones working on the map took too much time so I decided to make a “backup” map).

Week 7: I worked on collisions between rectangles and circles  (I used the SAT theorem). I was working on the bow of the player: fix the sprite, damage, range and while I was testing it I saw that there was a problem with the collision checker for rotated rectangles (the arrow would collide with the enemy even though it shouldn’t). So I spent some time fixing it (it was a special case when I computed the projection of the vector that I didn’t take care of). Then I finished implementing the bow for the player. I also worked on the handling of the statistics of entities when they do damage to other entities. The way the Game Designers decided that it would work is that the player has a damage multiplier and that every object (sword and bow) has a base damage. Then the damage done is the damage of the object times the damage multiplier of the entity. I also finished implementing the function that kills entities when they have no health left. 

Week 8: I created a cannon that shoots circle bullets in horizontal directions. It can shoot left or right. I animated the canon and the turret using sprites found on the internet. I also implement the map I made during the vacations because Joaquin managed to make it so that we can change maps. Thus we now have 3 different maps. I also added the animation for the creeper explosion and for the attack of the enemy slimes. I added a sprite animation also for the spawner, I used a blue portal found on the internet. I also fixed a bug that made the enemies disappear at some point (the problem was just a division by 0 at some point). I also fixed a bug where the player or the enemies get stuck when they are knocked back onto a wall. I also added a damage multiplier for the different armors.
